Page editor extensions (#149)
websight-io/docs: docs/docs/developers/development/page-editor/extending-editor/index.md

# Extending Page Editor

## Overview

> Developers may need to extend functionality of _Page editor_. It can be done by providing _Editor extension_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers may need to extend the functionality of _Page editor_. You can provide _Editor extension_ to achieve it. 
```

_Editor extension_ is delivered as JavaScript and use _Page editor_ API.

!!! Info "Note"

>         Detailed specification of _Page editor_ API will be provided together with next versions of WebSight CMS.

Reviewer: @pawel-boguski-ds, do we mean the very next release 1.9.0, or just sooner or later?

Author: Sooner or later.

## Registering extension

> To define the _Editor extension_ you must create JavaScript file which will be loaded in  the_Page editor_ by the _Web Fragments_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the _Editor extension_ you must create JavaScript file which will be loaded in  the _Page editor_ by the _Web Fragments_.
```

The _Web Fragments_ allows to register JavaScript files (JavaScript module) which will be imported using
[dynamic import](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) in the application runtime.
The _Web Fragments_ scripts should provide [default export](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export)
delivering object, function, etc. depending on the given case - _Web Fragments_ key that given fragment is related too.
Expected type of default export should be checked in specification of given extension point.
In number parts of application the _Web Fragments_ with particular keys are imported allowing to extend the WebSight CMS.

The key of _Web Fragments_ loaded by _Page editor_ to get extensions is `websight.editor.spi.extension`.
Expected default export should provide object with `init` function with single argument which will be _Page editor_ object.

> To register the fragment provide the OSGi components implementing `pl.ds.websight.fragments.registry.WebFragment` interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register the fragment, provide the OSGi components implementing `pl.ds.websight.fragments.registry.WebFragment` interface
```
